[WorkGraphs] Proposal to Add MaxRecordsPerNode attribute to NodeOutputArrays. (#323)
microsoft/hlsl-specs: proposals/NNNN-max-records-per-node.md

to any single node in the output array.  However, a common use-case is for a small number records to be written to
select nodes in a very large array of nodes.  Some implementations can take advantage of this knowledge to significantly
reduce the backing store memory requirements while maintaining peak performance.

## Proposed solution

We propose a new node output attribute called `MaxRecordsPerNode`. This parameter is only required for output node
arrays.  This attribute specifies the maximum number of records that can be written to any single output node within a
node array.

## Detailed design

### HLSL Additions

Add a new node output attribute:

| Attribute | Required | Description |
|:---       |:--------:|:------------|
| `[MaxRecordsPerNode(count)]` | Y | For `NodeArrayOutput`, specifies the maximum number of records that can be output to a node within the array.  Exceeding this results in undefined behavior.  This attribute can be overridden via the `NumOutputOverrides / pOutputOverrides` option when constructing a work graph.  This attribute has no impact on existing node output limits. |

This attribute will be required starting with a future Shader Model version.

> Since this may cause compilation failures with existing Work Graphs, a new compiler command line option will be
> introduced to replace the compiler error with a warning and implicitly set the value of `MaxRecordsPerNode`
> equal to `MaxRecords`. (TODO: Specify the command line option)

Reviewer: The way to do this is to use a warning that defaults to error (a `DefaultError` warning) with a warning group that can be addressed at the command line to override this default (change to warning or silence).

```suggestion
Since this may cause compilation failures with existing Work Graphs, this will
be a `DefaultError` warning assigned to a warning group named
`hlsl-require-max-records-per-node` to allow a command-line override.
The value of `MaxRecordsPerNode` will be set equal to `MaxRecords`.
```

        ...
        outputRecord.OutputComplete();
    }
}
```

As mentioned above, some material shading algorithms have a similar pattern: a single node which makes a decision about
which node(s) in a node array (materials) to execute, where the number of possible materials is large, but the number of
records submitted to any specific node is small, relative to the size of the array.

### Interchange Format Additions

A new metadata tag is added for MaxRecordsPerNode.

|Tag                            |Tag Encoding     |Value Type     |Default     |
|:------------------            |:----------------|:--------------|:-----------|
|kDxilNodeMaxRecordsPerNodeTag  |`7`              |`i32`          |Required, See [HLSL Additions](#hlsl-additions) section for backward compatibility with older Shader Models    |  

### Runtime Additions

The `MaxRecordsPerNode` information will be captured to RDAT. Similar to other Node attributes, add a `RDAT::NodeAttribKind` named `MaxRecordsPerNode`.

## Alternatives considered

### Parameter of MaxRecords

Modify the definition for `MaxRecords` node output attribute:

| attribute | required | description |
|:---       |:--------:|:------------|

> | `[MaxRecords(count)]` or `[MaxRecords(count, maxRecordsPerNode)]` | Y (this or below attribute) | Given uint `count` declaration, the thread group can output `0...count` records to this output.  The variant with `maxRecordsPerNode` is required for `NodeArrayOutput`, where `count` applies across all the output nodes in the array and `maxRecordsPerNode` specifies the maximum number of records that can be written to a single output node within the array.  Exceeding these limits results in undefined behavior.  The value of `maxRecordsPerNode` must be less-than or equal to the value of `count`.  These attributes can be overridden via the `NumOutputOverrides / pOutputOverrides` option when constructing a work graph as part of the [definition of a node]().  See [Node output limits](). |

Reviewer: `MaxRecordsPerNode` is defined as a separate attribute earlier on, instead of an extra parameter to the existing `MaxRecords` attribute.  Which is it?

Reviewer 2: The proposal is a separate attribute.  This section shows an "alternative" method as an extra parameter, which was earlier discussed in other forums.

Author: @tex3d Better?

Reviewer: Apologies for the confusion from before.  For some reason when I was reading these I wasn't realizing they were under an "alternative" section.

Note: if the specification is `MaxRecords(count, maxRecordsPerNode)`, then multiple outputs that share budget using
`MaxRecordsSharedWith` **must** also share the same value for `maxRecordsPerNode`.  While in many cases this might be
correct, this locks this requirement into the spec and restricts an implementation's ability to distinguish cases where
they are different.

### Optional Attribute

This attribute could be made optional, for maximum backward compatibility; i.e. existing SM6.8 Work Graphs compile with
the newer Shader Model.  When `MaxRecordsPerNode` is _not_ specified, the implicit value of `MaxRecordsPerNode` is equal
to `MaxRecords`.  This also avoids redundant attribute specifications for those usage models where the values of

> `MaxRecords` and `MaxRecordsPerNode` are identical.

Reviewer: This case is already described above to have a different behavior.

<!-- {% raw %} -->

> * Proposal: [0025](0025-filename.md)

Reviewer 3: You also need to rename the file (it is currently `proposals/NNN-max-records.per-node.md`) and make the link on this line contain the correct filename.

* Author(s): [Anupama Chandrasekhar](https://github.com/anupamachandra), [Mike Apodaca](https://github.com/mapodaca-nv)

> * Sponsor: TBD

Reviewer: Before we merge the PR, we need to find a `Sponsor`.  You'll want to update the number `NNNN` to the next number just before merging as well.

Author: What's the process to get a Sponsor assigned?

Reviewer 3: Feel free to put me down as sponsor.
